Oh, cool.
>> All right. Is this thing on? Are we
working? How are we doing, folks?
>> I know. Thumbs up for me, too. I'm
stoked. This is looking to be a cool
cool conference. I'm feeling very very
happy to be uh on the stage here getting
to share some neat stuff with you. All
right. So, today we're talking about uh
hardware insecurity or hardware
security. Um because every device every
device needs hardware security. All
right, your smart cards, the credit
cards in your wallet, the key fobs you
use to to drive your automobiles,
they're not inter internet connected,
but that doesn't matter because if those
were to fall into the wrong hands, we
want to make sure that someone who opens
them up, who starts probing, can't cause
them to do things we don't want them to
do.
All right, so um here's kind of the
spectrum of attacks we're going to look
at. Starting with things an attacker
might do that are uh very easy uh very
inexpensive
uh very simple all the way to attacks
that are uh much more complex or
expensive or or difficult.
All right. So uh a little bit about me.
Um in 2010 I graduated from Harvey Mud
College. I spent 15 years doing cool
stuff in the military among which was
getting to teach at West Point. Um they
uh the the military sent me to NC State
to get my master's degree in computer
engineering. Um I'm out now left in
June. Uh you can see picture of my
beautiful family there. Wife on the
right, two kiddos and uh we live in
Tennessee now and I'm doing um writing
some technical content for DigiKey. So
that's what I'm up to. Um got to present
at a couple of different conferences and
uh blog for embedded related. So uh it's
been a it's been a cool couple years.
All right. Um, I'm trying something new
today. Uh, I'm an educator at heart. I
want to make this fun. So, I've got
prizes. Okay, we're going to do we're
going to do a cahoot and at select
points throughout the presentation and
there's a chance to win um firstly uh a
chip whisperer nano. All right, so
you'll see me demonstrate this today.
This is a a little piece of hardware
made by um Colin Flynn over at Newe
Tech. Uh it's a little development board
that combines
uh a uh SAM 4S microcontroller that you
can uh control from their Python library
to conduct hardware attacks and then on
the end is a little STM32
microcontroller that comes bundled with
it. So so right out of the box you can
start conducting side channel or fault
injection attacks. And then second and
third places are I've got copies of the
hardware hacking handbook for. So this
is a great resource to to kind of get
more in depth into the attacks that
we'll look at today.
All right. So the first thing an
attacker might do if they've got access
to your device is just see what
information they can gather. Right? Um,
product manuals, repair tutorials are
are clearly pieces of information that
they might glean, right? Try to use to
gather information about a device. But
with a little bit of digging, they might
be able to go even deeper, right? They
might be able to find the GitHub repo
for, you know, that uh that device if it
wasn't set to private. They might be
able to find someone else's reverse
engineered schematics.
um if there's a a patent ID or an FCC ID
on the device, well then they can go to
uh those respective offices to try to
find those filings which is going to
include information about the device
that you know why it meets SEC
requirements or why it's warranted a
patent and all these things uh you know
individually might not necessarily seem
like they they expose a ton of
vulnerabilities in the device but they
absolutely can and they definitely can
in aggregate.
In 2018, security researchers used
patent filings specifically to expose
back doors in the security mechanism of
x86 CPUs. And in 2020, security
researchers used information they found
in patent filings to defeat the Cisco
route of trust. So the information
that's potentially available absolutely
enables uh or can enable hardware
attacks.
Attackers can get even more information
once the device is opened up. Okay. So,
uh if if we haven't intentionally tried
to obuscate anything, then they can read
off the part numbers of each of the
integrated circuits that are on the
board. So, they can find the exact model
of the microcontroller or the CPU we're
using. They can know exactly which flash
we're using. Um if uh they work hard
enough, they can reverse engineer the
the schematic from uh just probing
around the PCB. They might even find
some unlabeled ports. Uh maybe these
were ports used in production to flash a
secret key onto the device that of
course is not going to be populated for
the user. But if a hardware attacker can
find those pins, then they've got access
to a port potentially that goes into the
device. Um and uh and as an attacker,
they're going to be kind of looking for
these these things.
All right. So once an attacker's kind of
done an initial round of research, they
might continue their their probing
around the the the circuit board,
specifically looking for uh those ports,
those J-TAG or programming ports that
were used to to flash the device, uh any
sort of serial communications like UART
or spy or I2C, even if it's just going
to a sensor and back. And with these
things, they might ask, well, did the
did the manufacturer leave the JTAG port
unlocked? Oh, that's a huge
vulnerability because at that point I
would just need to attach a debugger to
get full access to the device. But even
if it is locked, like we'll see later,
that locking protection, that mechanism
might be vulnerable to a fault injection
attack. We might get the be able to get
the chip to sort of glitch a bit and
give us access to the device.
Maybe we encrypted our firmware uh when
the user was doing overtheair updates,
but if we weren't careful, if an
unencrypted version of that is loaded
into the microcontroller on startup from
an external flash, well then all an
attacker needs to do to read the
unencrypted firmware is just probe those
that memory bus.
Um maybe we just look at signals that
are going from the microcontroller to
other sensors or peripherals on the
printed circuit board.
uh that might not necessarily lead to a
vulnerability, but we could get the
microcontroller to think erroneous
information, right? If it's attached to
a temperature sensor, I could
potentially
uh tell the microcontroller give a
faulty sensor signal to say, "Hey, it's
a thousand degrees Fahrenheit or it's
negative a million and that might
inadvertently cause a buffer overflow or
or something or an integer overflow
later on."
In fact, the PlayStation 3 hypervisor
was actually hacked in 2010 using this
exact method.
Attackers glitched a little logic line
on the between the microcontroller or
the the CPU and the memory bus during a
uh a free operation that caused an
actual memory leak in software. And then
attackers were able to exploit that
memory leak to gain control of the whole
device. And it all started with just
putting a little probe on that signal
line between the CPU and the external
memory and glitching it at just the
right time.
Additionally, we can get uh information
as attackers uh um just from the timing
of things going back and forth. We'll
see later that um if I can measure how
long it takes a device to perform
certain operations, that can leak enough
information to allow an attacker access
to a device.
Lastly, the attacker might actually
start modifying this PCB. So, I've
already kind of mentioned how I might
just not be probing around. Maybe I'm
actually sort of disconnecting certain
traces and injecting my own signals. Um,
lots of uh SOC's and CPUs come with
external pins that control the boot
configuration. Um, so I can start
soldering or desoldering strap resistors
or pull-up or pull down resistors to
change the configuration of the device
potentially to cause it to think it's
booting from a different piece of
hardware than it was configured for,
something like that to cause an attack.
Um, if there's a piece of external
memory on that printed circuit board,
then I might be able to lift that off to
desolder that,
uh, read out the contents and if it
wasn't protected correctly, rewrite my
own contents to that device, solder it
back onto the board, and now my device
is booting from memory that I just
wrote.
All right, so um, take a second,
introduce yourself to the the person
sitting next to you if you haven't
already. Um, and uh, and get your
creative wheels spinning. asked them
what other attacks do they think might
be enabled by an individual who just
just had access to a device.
We got a question up here.
>> Oh, you got an attack. Okay, tell it to
There's a fellow sitting behind you.
Tell that to him. We'll go again in a
minute.
All right.
>> So, critical point for me from from just
thinking about this is that there's lots
of hardware attacks that really are not
difficult to conduct. Um, and a point
I'll hopefully kind of belabor over the
presentation is that um uh your your
device, even if it's not internet
connected, should have a threat model.
You should be thinking about how
individuals may attack your device,
including just sort of probing around
and and and and you will hopefully as
you're developing things uh are are
conducting that that security analysis.
What are we trying to protect? What are
we protecting against? And and and what
sorts of countermeasures do we feel like
we need to have in place to prevent easy
attacks?
Okay, Cahoot.
All right, so here we go.
Hopefully this I think I've got a legacy
account, so hopefully this this doesn't
kick us out after 10 people. All right,
here's your game pin. Go ahead and pull
out your phone. You can navigate to
cahoot.it or scan the QR code to put in
that pin. And then I got a couple
questions for you.
No.
>> No.
Okay.
>> All right. We'll we'll still show the
questions. I'll figure out another way
then to make this fair to to to to
partial those out. So if you were not
able to join then you can just sort of
think through your answer um when we
start this. All right.
All right. First question. True or
false? With regards to onboard PCB
signals, attackers are only concerned
with the ones carrying cryptographic
information.
All right. Excellent. False. Yeah, I can
do lots of fun stuff with not just
necessarily cryptographic things. All
right, number two. Which of the
following is not a useful piece of
information that an attacker could get
by reading the data sheet for the CPU?
All right. Yeah. I see package size. I
think all the other ones of these,
right? What pin? What are the functions
of the pins around the CPU? What are
they doing? Are they are they memory
buses? Are they GPIO? Are they uh
different power? um nets. These are all
important things. Operating voltages is
important to know. Not just how it's how
we're operating the device, but what's
out of my operating voltage range. How
could I start to kind of get this device
to do things that it wasn't intended to
do? Definitely boot configurations.
Okay. Excellent
back here. Okay. So, um the first I I
don't want to say real attack, but the
first place where we get this this gets
really interesting are side channel
attacks. All right. Um, a side channel
is a way that a device leaks information
about what it's doing through just the
byproducts of its operating. All right.
So, in the same way that like detective
work, like it's founded on the idea that
criminals leave behind clues to what
they did, even if they were trying to
cover their tracks, microcontrollers and
electronic devices uh will do things in
the course of even cryptographically
secure operations that leak information
about what's going on. And so these can
include uh the electromagnetic radiation
from the device. Um the two big ones
we'll look at today are the power
consumption of that device or how long
it takes to execute things. But there's
a number of side channels that we can
all attack uh to try to figure out
what's going on in this device. All
right. So every device every device is
going to leak information about its
operations and its data. Um, we'll talk
towards the end about countermeasures
that the best we can do as developers is
to try to sort of prevent someone from
gaining enough information from the
information from what our device is
leaking to do anything useful. All
right. So, um, I can use execution time
to figure out what a device is doing.
Here's a very simple example. Uh, a
website might tell me an error occurred
if I logged in. But if there is a a
difference in time between when that
message comes back to me, I might be
able to sort of consistently figure out
when I've entered my username correctly.
If the server takes just a little bit
longer when the username is correct
before it checks the password. All
right, here's an example using uh a like
a password login. So maybe my device has
like a little, you know, UART shell that
is hidden in the PCB for developer
access. And if I connect to it, I see
this little prompt that says enter
password. A really typical configuration
for the on the device side might be,
hey, we're going to ask this person to
enter a password and then use string
compare. We're going to compare that
bite for bite to what the actual
password is. If it's valid, we'll grant
them access. Otherwise, we kick them
out. This code is susceptible to a
timing attack. Exactly. Because string
compare is going to go bite for bite and
return as soon as it knows the two
strings don't match. So if we send our
device a string of incorrect passwords
and one of them takes just a little bit
longer than the rest to come back with
that access denied message, we found the
first correct character in that password
sequence. And so instead of having to
brute force over a billion passwords,
assuming this thing is a six-digit alpha
numeric passcode, on average, we only
need to test 108
because within about 18 guesses, right,
I can get that first character. And then
I just have to do that six times.
Uh, and this is this is not a madeup
scenario. As recently as the mid200s,
you could buy a PIN protected hard
drive. Yeah, this thing's not going to
mount to your computer unless the user
types in the correct PIN. super secure.
But the software on this thing was uh
vulnerable to a timing attack. All you
needed to do was open up the case and
probe the signal that went to the error
LED and you could type in a pin and
watch that signal come back. And when
you typed in the first correct digit on
that pin, it took the the hard drive
just a little bit longer to light up the
error LED. And and and very easily you
could use this timing attack to access
the hard drive.
All right. So, take a second, look to
the person next to you. How how might
you fix this code? We'll talk I'll give
you a couple suggestions at the end, but
I think some of us are are are creative
enough in this room to kind of start to
hypothesize how I we fix this code to
prevent a timing attack. So, take a sec
to see if the you can come up with a
solution with the person next to you.
All right. All right. Like I said, we'll
see some uh poss some tips later
potentially about how we might rewrite
this code to uh to close off a timing
attack. Uh let's look now at power
consumption. All right. So, we're going
to analyze what's going on inside a
microcontroller or a CPU by just
measuring how much power it's it's
drawing from the supply. Um okay, so uh
uh it probably should come as no
surprise, right? If we're measuring the
power consumption, we can use that to
tell uh really coarse things like the
device is doing something really
intensive right now or the device is
asleep. Okay. Um but we can do better.
All right. Um we can uh potentially
differentiate between two operations the
device is doing. So if if there's a a
sensitive operation, there's a key point
right in the middle of that operation
when the device is either doing we'll
say multiplication or addition. assuming
multiplication is a little bit more
intensive for the the the
microcontroller. We can tell the
difference between those two. All right.
Now, you're not necessarily going to be
able to do that just by looking at a a
single trace u because there's a lot
going on in these things. So, in order
to to figure this out, we're going to
use uh some statistics. We're going to
use something called difference of
means. All right. So we'll start by
assuming um I I I I can send a bunch of
data to the device and I know 100% that
it's going to be doing multiplication.
Okay, so I can collect a whole bunch of
power traces of this device as it's
doing multiplication and uh and then
we'll say I can send a whole set of data
to the device and I know in that case
that it's doing addition. So I can
collect a whole bunch of power traces of
this device as it's doing addition.
If I take the groups of power traces for
multiplication and average them
together, I get a representative trace
where a whole bunch of noise has been
sort of canceled out by the by the
virtue of averaging all these traces
together. And the same is true for
addition. I'll get a representative
trace of the the processor as it's doing
addition by averaging all those those
power traces together.
If I subtract one from the other,
for the most part, I'm going to get a
graph that is that is all zeros because
this is this is the device essentially
doing the exact same thing in both
cases. So, I'm going to subtract, you
know, I'm subtracting one from one, but
there'll be a very specific point in
this power trace when the device was
doing multiplication in the top versus
addition in the bottom. And there's
enough of a difference in that power
trace right at that moment that I can
see a peak in this graph when I subtract
the two. Now, it takes a lot of traces
to do that. Potentially thousands. In
the cases of um uh performing the
attacks on real devices, you might need
millions or billions of traces to really
kind of to to find this this noise or
this signal. Um but it's potentially
there. Okay. So, we're going to use this
in a second to show I'm going to show
you how we can recover the um AES key
inside a device just by looking at its
power. Um there's one other couple more
things we need to to to lay the
foundation for before we get there. Num
number one of which let's assume I I
didn't know whether device was doing
multiplication or addition in this
little fake scenario. Let's say I just
grabbed a power trace and I was trying
to show what operation was happening. Um
in this case I don't necessarily have
enough information to group these traces
into multiplication and addition and
define that signal. So I've got to make
a guess, right? Okay. Well, let's let's
say I make the guess that the device
when it's when I send in an even number,
it's going to perform multiplication.
And when I send in an odd number, it's
going to do addition. All right. So, I
can do the same analysis. I can group
those traces by evens and odd numbers. I
can take the average, I can subtract it,
and I'll get one or two results. If once
I subtract these two average sets of
traces, I get a little peak. That's my
indicator that I've made the correct
guess that this is in fact how the
microcontroller is separating the traces
and and what operations it's conducting
in both cases. If I get a graph that's
just nothing, it's mostly zero. Uh what
this is telling me is that effectively
I've I've separated my two traces into r
into randomly into into two groups,
right? I've not made the correct guess
as to what the microcontroller is doing
internally and so the result is just
zero. Okay. Um so uh even if I don't
know what operation the microcontroller
is doing if I make a guess and sort and
look at the result that can tell me
whether my guess was correct or not. All
right. Um power analysis can do more
though than just differentiate between
operations. I can detect if a single bit
in this microcontroller at a point in
its operation is a one or zero. And
we're going to use we're going to use
that fact to here to to crack AES. So,
like I said, um we're going to use a uh
or I'm going to show you how to do a
what's called a differential power
analysis attack. So, I've got a device.
We'll say it's doing AES128 encryption
in uh ECB mode. All right. Uh I can send
plain text data into the device. It does
its encryption, but then I don't see the
cipher text. I don't know the key
inside, but I'm going to tell you by
looking at the power traces, we can
figure out the 16 byt private key inside
that device.
All right. So to do that, here's a
little background on AES. Forgive me if
this is well aware. All right. So this
is the AES encryption algorithm. Uh at
least in AES128, the first step is to
exor the plain text with that 16 byt
private key. Bite for bite, right? Bite
zero the plain text gets exorded with
bite zero the key. Bite one and bite one
and so on. All right. Nine times in a
row, we conduct the operation sub bytes,
shift rows, and mix columns before we
exor the next round key and start the
process over. On the last round, we just
do sub bytes and shift rows before we
exor one last time and emit our cipher
text. Importantly, the sub bytes
function is literally just a
substitution. There's this is like an
example here of what's called the sbox,
right? We're we're taking the the output
of this exor. We are looking up a value
in a table and that's what we're that's
where what we're emitting, right? Right.
So I could write th that very first
couple of steps of the AES algorithm
like this. Some bite of the plain text
gets exorded with some bite of the key
and then I look up a value in my
substitution box.
Um so if I let's say hypothetically I
knew that the output of the substitution
box was a hex 18.
If I knew that bite zero of the input
was hex 34, that would be enough
mathematically, right, to figure out
that the lowest bite of the key has got
to be 00 because I could just sort of
work my way backwards from the sbox to
the exor to what the key must be
in our DPA attack. We don't necessarily
know exactly the output of the SBOX, but
we're going to use just what we did here
for difference of means and these power
traces to make an intuitive guess as to
what that key value must be. And that
limits our sort of search space small
enough that we can actually do this this
attack in software. All right. So step
one of my differential power analysis
attack is to conduct a whole lot of
power traces of this device as it's
doing encryption. All right. So what
I've got here is a Jupyter notebook
produced by new AE tech to show how to
use their devices to do cool hardware
hacking stuff. This is one uh this is
set up now with my little chip whisper
nano here uh which is doing AES
encryption and what I'm going to have it
do is just collect a whole bunch of
traces 2500 right that's going to go for
a minute and then we'll come back and
take a look at the results
um to conduct my AES my DPA attack sorry
on AES um I'm going to make a guess at
that the the zero the first bite of the
key I'm going to start with hex zero
might as well right And since I know I
can do an exor and I I have the
substitution box, I can uh assuming the
key is 00, I can figure out what the
output of that substitution box must be
for each of the input values that I'm
sending my microcontroller. Right? So
here comes a I'm going to make a I'm
going to do that difference of means to
figure out if my guess was correct. I'm
going to take the lowest bit in this
value. So the ones that are bolded here
have a low bite of zero. eight and E
have a a zero in the the lowest bit
position. FF and D5, they have a one in
the lowest bit position. So I'm going to
take the first and third sets of power
traces. I'm going to say, hey, right at
the output of the Sbox, that lowest bit
was a zero. So I'm going to put those
all in a group together, and I'm going
to take the second and fourth power
traces and I'm going to put them in a
group with by themselves because the
output of their SBX and the lowest bit
was a one. All right? If I average those
traces and subtract them and that that
resulting uh graph there has a peak then
I have a confidence then that I've made
the correct guess at key zero because if
I hadn't I would have effectively have
sorted my my sets of traces completely
randomly and I would have gotten a
result that was just nothing. There was
nothing on the on the output. Um when I
see a peak that's my indicator that I've
correctly guessed the zeroth bite of the
key. there's only 255 possible values.
So in order to guess correctly guess the
zeroth bite of the key, I just need to
make 256 guesses. And on average after
128, I'm going to find the right key
value or I should say I'm going to do
256 anyways, whichever one has the
biggest peak. That's my like indicator
that that that's the correct bite value
of the the zeroth key bite. And then I
just need to do that 16 times to recover
the whole key.
All right. So, here I've got my traces.
I'm going to show you what a couple of
them look like. Um,
ah, there it is. There's the AES key.
I'm kidding. This is garbage. I don't
know what that says.
Okay.
I'm gonna go down here.
Okay. And then this is the code right
here that essentially says, hey, for
each key, for each bite in the key, for
each possible value of that key, sort my
traces,
calculate the difference of means, tell
me what the peak value is. Now, um,
critically, I'm going to show you that
for uh, for this firmware, I'm using the
default key here. You'll notice it
starts with hex 2B7E1516.
All right, that's enough to show what's
happening here. Now, I'm gonna Oops.
I'm gonna run this. Uh,
yeah.
All right. I'm going to run this.
Um, and then so 256 times this software
is making a guess at the first bite of
the key, separating those two traces
into two groups,
subtracting them together, and telling
me which guess had the highest peak. In
this case, it starts off 2B 2B70, right?
Those are the first two bytes of the
key. This is only operating on
information from those power traces,
right? This is not interacting at all
with the microcontroller.
There's nothing up my sleeve. Okay. Um,
and you can already kind of see this
going in about I don't know two three
minutes, right? Just by looking at the
power traces, I'm going to be able to
recover the the private key inside uh
this STM32.
Okay.
I'll charge you the chip booster now.
Now there was my demonstration. I have a
video just in case. Ah time.
All right. So even if
Nope.
All right.
So hopefully all of us are still playing
even though we're not necessarily
tallying all of our scores. Question
three. What side channel does ZPA rely
on?
Yeah, power consumption because I'm
watching those power traces, right? The
power traces reveal information to me
about what's going on inside my
microcontroller as it's doing the
encryption.
All right, number four. True or false?
Side channel attacks exploit information
leakage from a device rather than
breaking the cryptographic algorithm
itself.
Yeah, too easy. Yeah, we're not I mean
AES is cryptographically secure. You're
not going to Excuse You're not going to
brute force that thing, but the device
itself gives us enough information to to
recover that key.
True or false? DPA tech typically
requires a single power trace to reveal
secret information.
Yeah. False. I I can definitely get
information about what a microcontroller
is or a processor is doing with a single
power trace. Um but not enough to do my
my differential power analysis attack,
right? I've got to average a whole bunch
of traces together to kind of cancel out
some of that noise to see the
contribution in that power trace from a
single single bit uh in in that
microcontroller.
All right. An attacker measures how long
a password comparison takes and infers
characters one by one. This is an
example of
Yeah, very good. A timing attack. That
was one of the first side channels we
looked at. Okay, cool. Let's go back
here. All right, cool. So, those are
there's a whole bunch more cool stuff we
can do with side channel attacks, but
I'm going to move on now to level five
fault injection attacks. And to me, this
is further on the spectrum because I I'm
starting to actually interact with my
device. some of the faults are strong
enough that I can actually break them.
So, a little bit uh a little bit more
intrusive. All right. Um so, all devices
all devices have valid operating ranges
outside of which the manufacturers kind
of just say, "Hey, there's no all bets
are off in terms of what this thing is
doing." All right. I've got a standard
little D flip-flop here on the left and
uh whichever manufacturer is going to
make that device, they're going to have
requirements in terms of what what range
VCC needs to be in in order for this
thing to do the DFlop thing.
There's a there's a certain setup and
hold time and certain logic values on
the data in that have to be met in order
for this thing to do D flip-flops. On
the on the right, I've got excerpts from
a a data sheet for an STM32
microcontroller. Kind of, you know, same
story. We're seeing a minimum operating
voltage range of 2.0. So, anything less
than that, ST just says, hey, don't
expect this thing to work. Um, I've got
minimum and maximum clock values that I
can send into my microcontroller to get
a valid clock for it to run. Um, and in
each of these cases, um, you know, like
we said, the manufacturer just says, you
know, all bets are off if if we don't
meet these criteria, right? Um, and and
of course, if we try to run this
microcontroller from, you know, a tenth
of a volt, it's just it's just not going
to work. But the question stands, well,
what if we're just a little bit outside
that operating range, right? Or what if
we what if we we we glitch the power
down to ground but for like you know a
microscond right around the clock edge
or what if we sort of double pulse the
clock real quick you know for one clock
cycle this thing looks like it's at 96
megahertz when the maximum should be 24
but then it keeps running correctly what
happens then okay well now we're in a
weird range where the manufacturer just
says hey we just can't guarantee what
it's going to do in effect we don't know
in a lot of cases we just sort of cause
the device to reset. We break it in some
way. But occasionally, these little
glitches will cause the device to
continue running, albeit with having a
skipped instruction or or a corrupted
instruction or we can potentially cause
the device to to sort of flip a bit in
one of the registers. Um, it's not
necessarily deterministic, but it
doesn't necessarily have to be for this
to work. All right, here's an example of
of us being able to use this sort of
ability to fault a device intentionally
to get around a password check. Okay, so
I've got some sample code here. The the
key requirement I'm try to get out of
the way. Um, is that uh I'm I'm checking
the user's password. So, this is like
going back to that that first example
where we're doing a string compare. Um,
and in this case, uh, I'm going to set
the default to allow login. Password,
okay, is default set to one. Then I I
iterate over my password. If any of them
don't match, then I say, oop, no, not
allowed. Right? We're not going to let
this individual into the um into the
device. All right. um to do fault
injections attacks really well a lot of
times we have to look at the assembly
because we are targeting specific
instructions that the microcontroller or
the processor is doing. So it turns out
this this little setting of the uh the
flag variable to this lock you know
value of hey don't let the user in
amounts to one store instruction in the
ARM assembly. All right, one store
instruction. If I can manage get the
microcontroller to sort of skip that
instruction or or garble it in some way
that it just doesn't execute it, then
the default value allowing me access the
device stands.
So, that's what I'm going to do. Um,
there's hardware on the Chip Whisperer
Nano that lets me do this. Uh, it's it's
called a crowbar. Basically, it's just a
MOSFET between power and ground. So, I'm
just going to slam VCC to ground for
some real short amount of time um to see
if I can get the microcontroller to kind
of skip over that instruction. Um on the
chipboard,
uh for this type of attack, there's
really two parameters I can I can
change. I I can change how long I wait
after some triggering event to to to
perform the glitch, and I can change how
long that glitch happens to try to make
something, you know, useful. And uh and
so at this point, I don't know what
those two values need to be. Uh hardly
ever do you actually. So fault injection
attacks uh are sometimes difficult to to
get to succeed because there's just a
lot of throwing darts at the wall and
seeing what sticks, right? Um but but
that's what I'm going to do, right? I'm
going to sweep these parameters while
I'm, you know, continuously sending bad
passwords to the device to see if I can
glitch that instruction.
Um okay. And I think yeah. Okay.
So, let me see if I can set this up for
us and show you in real time.
All
right. So, again, I'm using the uh
Jupyter notebooks provided by New AE
Tech. Um, and uh what I'm going to show
you here is um over and over again, I'm
going to send zeros to my device. Five
zeros in a row. Um, and what this device
is, Nope, not that.
Uh, is looking for is a password that
matches touch. T O U C H is my is my
password. But I'm just going to send
this thing bad passwords over and over
again. All right. In my in my code here,
I am iterating over uh my my uh in my
offset range from 1 to 50. I'm just I've
had some success in that range, finding
a a glitch that works. Uh I'm going to
set how long that glitch is between 10
and 12. And these are parameters that
are defined for the chip whisperer nano.
And uh I'm just going to run it and see
what happens. All right. So you can see
uh this this graph here will show um
successes and failures. You can see
right now I'm I'm uh I'm not really
affecting the device. This count of
normal operation i.e. I send a bad
password and the device tells me access
denied is just going up because I'm my
glitch is not yet affecting the um the
chip. All right. Um eventually, and
sometimes it takes a little bit, uh
we'll probably see the reset count start
to go up because that means my glitch is
long enough to to actually cause the
device to go into reset. So, it's it's
almost a little too long at that point.
Oh no, there it goes. Holy Okay,
pardon me.
It's okay. I want to support cancer
research. Uh yeah, I got a success. Holy
cow. Okay, so um on the graph, that's
that little green green X. You can see
it down here when my uh device returned
the value one in the firmware. Where'd
it go? Um the device returned a value
one. It was returning the value of
password. Okay. So, I just had to
iterate sometimes. And in this case, it
really didn't take that long, maybe 30
seconds or a minute for me to sort of
find a glitch that caused this
microcontroller to corrupt or edit that
instruction and gave me access to the
device.
N
All right. Um, so like I said, a fault
doesn't necessarily have to make sense
for it to work. It just needs to be
repeatable. Um,
there are a number of ways to induce
faults, right? We talked about two so
far. I can I can sort of glitch the
power supply. Um, and there's even a
couple of different uh ways to do that
that I haven't shown. Uh, I can glitch
the clock. Uh, we'll look at lasers a
little later. Uh, but another neat one
is electromagnetic fault injection. So,
I'm kind of can I can u hover a strong
electromagnet on top of my
microcontroller and and make it create
and collapse a really strong magnetic
field as the device is operating to try
to glitch it. The cool part about that
is that now I've got like an XY
positioning. So, I can actually like
target specific parts of my processor. I
can like hover over the ALOU or hover
over the instruction register to like
try to target specific parts of my chip.
Um, again,
devices in production very susceptible
to this. So NXP makes a family of
microcontrollers called the uh LPC. Uh a
lot of them have a specific register
called code read protection. So if you
set that the that register to to a
specific value, um I can tell the LPC,
hey, on on on bootup, you know, disable
certain features or enable certain
features to allow or disallow users to
read out code from memory or or or
disable the JTAG or something. uh
critically if the device uh in or the
value in that register is anything other
than one of these four key values that
the the microcontroller interprets that
as a no protection. All right. So Chris
Gerinsky in 2017 discovered that um you
know this code of of checking that value
in that register essentially amounts to
a single load instruction, right? I'm
going to load the reg the the value from
the CRP, you know, uh location in memory
into one of my internal registers and
based on that value, I'm going to I'm
going to allow or disallow certain
features in my device. And we can glitch
that, right? He demonst correctly uh
successfully demonstrates in this video
uh conducting a little glitch on that
value being loaded causing a device that
should be protected by code read
protection built into that thing by NXP
to not be protected at all.
It's actually how the Xbox 360 was
hacked in 2011. All right, so the Xbox
360, like a lot of really complex stuff,
uh, hardware, you know, starts with some
sort of BIOS, right? Goes into a first
stage bootloader, second stage
bootloader before it loads the actual OS
kernel that's going to run. And along
the way, it's conducting checks to make
sure that, hey, we've got valid stuff
here.
Well, turned out checking the hash on
the kernel amounts to a single mem
compare, right? So, attackers in 20 was
it 2010, 2011, excuse me, discovered
that all right, well, we can load our
own kernel into that into that flash.
And all I need to do if at the right
time is pulse the reset line
just long enough to cause the memare
function to return a zero. even though
it shouldn't. That zero value coming out
of mem compare will trick the processor
into thinking, hey, we've got a valid
kernel here and boot my code. And this
thing can happen fast and sufficiently
enough that uh you you could buy mod
chips that just sort of slap onto your
PCB and in a couple of minutes
successfully trigger a glitch that
allowed your Xbox to run your own
kernel.
All right, so take a second. Holy cow,
how would you fix the Xbox code? Take a
second with the people next to you and
see if you can brainstorm some
solutions.
All right. Um, oh yeah, I got some
cahoot.
All right, true false. Injecting a fault
during the execution of a password check
can cause the device to skip the
comparison entirely.
Yeah, totally. among other things,
right? We don't know what's going to
happen, but skipping it could be one of
them.
All right. Which of the following best
describes why a voltage glitch may cause
a CPU to skip an instruction?
>> I know. I gota I gotta find a good spot.
Yeah. Okay. We're corrupting the that
fetch or decode. We're doing something
that caused this instruction to kind of
be malformed. Okay. Excellent.
Okay. Level six. The Yeah, this is the
mega boss, folks. Okay. Um, with a lot
of time and patience and potentially
some very expensive machinery and and a
good bit of knowhow, um, I can actually
I can scrape off the plastic on top of a
of an integrated circuit, right? Um,
usually I need very strong chemicals.
Um, I can do it with strong lasers
though or milling machines. Um, some
folks will just sort of cut devices in
half, but as an attacker, I really want
this thing to um to continue operating
so that I can do an attack on it. Once
the silicone is exposed though, uh, I've
got lots of cool stuff I can do. All
right. Um, now that I'm I can see the
actual silicon and the transistors, I
can conduct optical side channel
attacks, right? I can I can it's uh
these transistors occasionally will emit
photons as they're switching on and off,
which means I can measure that to to
conduct a side channel attack on this
device. I can use strong lasers to
induce faults since I can actually look
at the the transistors in not very
similar way that I might just normally
use a photo transistor, right? To turn a
gate on or off with some amount of
light. Um, it gets even scarier. Okay, I
can use focused ion beams to physically
change the silicone on that chip. I can
cut traces. I can add I can deposit
material. I can effectively cause this
thing, you know, with with a few
limitations to do whatever I want it to.
All right. Again, keep in mind that this
is this requires very expensive
machinery, really a lot of expertise,
but it's there. Okay, couple of quick
countermeasures. So, um it's not hope is
not all lost. Okay, like you can expect
the world's still working. There are
countermeasures to each of these things.
Um and uh and so it involves sort of
subverting the attackers understanding
of how the device is operating. Okay. So
to prevent side channel attacks, what I
can try to do is sort of decorrelate the
time that my my uh um my device is doing
to execute things uh to sort of shake
off that timing attack. Right? I can
insert a random delay, right? If I'm
randomly delaying after some trigger,
then it's going to be hard for the
attacker to sort of figure out what's
going with the string compare. I can
rewrite a variation of mem compare that
always runs the same amount every time
and then will tell me if if the answer
is is same or different. Um, for fault
injections, uh, one of the best things I
can do is not use default constants,
right? Zero and one are are are easily
glitched to. So, if I use random stuff
for my true or false or if I can exor in
these characters here to do my mem
compare, then at the output, if one of
those things doesn't match, I've got an
indicator that someone glitched an
instruction somewhere. Um, and uh,
there's some really advanced stuff I can
do if I want to verify the control flow,
right? I want to verify that my software
actually executed a certain branch. But
simple things I can do or just check
that hey my loop counter should have
gone to a thousand before you know
before I exited the loop. If it's not
maybe one of those iterations was
glitched or something.
Um so to me key point right is that uh
step one was knowing that these attacks
exist right knowing that if we're
developing a device we need to think
about that hardware security. In many
cases, the threats are not big. The
attacks they can do are not crazy, and I
don't need exorbitant countermeasures,
but occasionally I might. And and the
best thing I can do is just be
intentional about that. Um, okay. Uh, I
think I'm running out of time, so we're
going to skip this. Um, I do do I have
any time for questions?
Okay, I'll Well, I'll tell you what. I
will take questions up at the front
here. I think the best way for me to
hand out these super cool prizes is if
they are at all of interest to you,
think it'd be cool to own a Chip
Whisperer Nano or own a copy of this
book, come up. All right, I'll I'll find
a fair way to hopefully divy them out.
You can ask me any questions up there.
Uh otherwise, thank you so much to all
of you for being here and to the
presenters, the organizers at John Con.
This has been a blast. Uh I hope you
enjoy the rest of the conference.